---
title: National ICT Strategic Principles
layout: standard
standard_title: National ICT Strategic Principles
bps_reference: bps28187
original_reference: 
standard_maturity: Current
project_status: n-a
obsoletes: 
obsoleted_by: 
tags: 
is_abstract: 
format_links: 
html_link: 
pdf_link: 
docx_link: ../library/bps28187/bps28187.docx
odt_link: 
---
{% include file-links.html project_status="n-a" odt_link="" html_link="" pdf_link="" docx_link="../library/bps28187/bps28187.docx" %}
Introduction
============

Principles are general rules and guidelines, intended to be enduring and
seldom amended, that inform and support the way in which an organisation
sets about fulfilling its mission.

In their turn, principles may be just one element in a structured set of
ideas that collectively define and guide the organisation, from values
through to actions and results.

Depending on the organisation, principles may be established within
different domains and at different levels. Two key domains inform the
development and utilisation of architecture:

-   **Enterprise** principles provide a basis for decision-making
    throughout an organisation, and inform how the organisation sets
    about fulfilling its mission. Such principles are commonly found as
    a means of harmonising decision-making across an organisation. In
    particular, they are a key element in a successful architecture
    governance strategy.

> Within the broad domain of enterprise principles, it is common to have
> subsidiary principles within a business or organisational unit.
> Examples include ICT, HR, frontline policing & protective services
> arenas. These principles provide a basis for decision-making within
> the subsidiary domain and will inform architecture development within
> the domain.

-   **Architecture** principles are a set of principles that relate to
    architecture work. They reflect a level of consensus across the
    organisation, and embody the spirit and thinking of existing
    enterprise principles. Architecture principles govern the
    architecture process, affecting the development, maintenance, and
    use of the enterprise architecture.

Architecture principles may restate other organisational guidance in
terms and form that effectively guide architecture development.

Characteristics of Architecture Principles
==========================================

Architecture principles define the underlying general rules and
guidelines for the use and deployment of all ICT capabilities across the
organisation. They reflect a level of consensus among the various
elements of the organisation, and form the basis for making future ICT
decisions.

Architecture Principles
=======================

Business Principles
-------------------

### Principle 1: Primacy of Principles

**Statement:** These principles of information management apply to all
areas within the organisation.

**Rationale:** The only way we can provide a consistent and measurable
level of quality information to decision-makers is if all areas abide by
the principles.

**Implications:** Without this principle, exclusions, favouritism, and
inconsistency would rapidly undermine the management of information.

> Information management initiatives will not begin until they are
> examined for compliance with the principles.
>
> A conflict with a principle will be resolved by changing the framework
> of the initiative.

### Principle 2: Maximise Benefit to Policing

**Statement:** Information management decisions are made to provide
maximum benefit to the organisation as a whole.

**Rationale:** This principle embodies ‘‘service above self’’. Decisions
made from an organisation-wide perspective have greater long-term value
than decisions made from any particular organisational perspective.
Maximum return on investment requires information management decisions
to adhere to organisation-wide drivers and priorities. No minority group
will detract from the benefit of the whole. However, this principle will
not preclude any minority group from getting its job done.

**Implications:** Achieving maximum organisation-wide benefit will
require changes in the way we plan and manage information. Technology
alone will not bring about this change.

Application development priorities must be established by the entire
organisation for the entire organisation.

Applications components should be shared across organisational
boundaries.

Information management initiatives should be conducted in accordance
with the organisation and national plan. Individual areas should pursue
information management initiatives which conform to the blueprints and
priorities established by Information Management Department. We will
change the plan as we need to.

As needs arise, priorities must be adjusted. A forum with comprehensive
organisation representation should make these decisions.

### Principle 3: Information Management is Everybody’s Business

**Statement:** All areas of the organisation are accountable for the
information management decisions defined and enforced by the Information
Management Department and National guidelines.

**Rationale:** Information users are the key stakeholders, or customers,
in the application of technology to address a business need. In order to
ensure information management is aligned with the business, all areas of
the organisation must be involved in all aspects of the information
environment. The business experts from across the organisation and the
technical staff responsible for developing and sustaining the
information environment need to come together as a team to jointly
define the goals and objectives of ICT.

**Implications:** To operate as a team, every stakeholder, or customer,
will need to accept responsibility for developing the information
environment.

Commitment of resources will be required to implement this principle.

### Principle 4: Business Continuity

**Statement:** Organisational operations are maintained in spite of
system interruptions.

**Rationale:** As system operations become more pervasive, we become
more dependent on them; therefore, we must consider the reliability of
such systems throughout their design and use. Business premises
throughout the organisation must be provided with the capability to
continue their business functions regardless of external events.
Hardware failure, natural disasters, and data corruption should not be
allowed to disrupt or stop organisational activities. Areas of the
organisation must be capable of operating on alternative information
delivery mechanisms.

**Implications:** Dependency on shared system applications mandates that
the risks of business interruption must be established in advance and
managed. Management includes but is not limited to periodic reviews,
testing for vulnerability and exposure, or designing mission-critical
services to ensure business function continuity through redundant or
alternative capabilities.

Recoverability, redundancy, and maintainability should be addressed at
the time of design.

Applications must be assessed for criticality and impact on the
organisation mission, in order to determine what level of continuity is
required and what corresponding recovery plan is necessary.

### Principle 5: Common Use Applications

**Statement:** Development of applications used nationally, regionally
or the organisation as a whole is preferred over the development of
similar or duplicative applications which are only used by a subset of
users within the organisation.

**Rationale:** Duplicative capability is expensive and proliferates
conflicting data.

**Implications:** Areas that depend on a capability which does not serve
the entire organisation must change over to the replacement single
capability. This will require establishment of and adherence to a policy
requiring this.

Areas will not be allowed to develop capabilities for their own use
which are similar/duplicative of organisation-wide or regional
capabilities. In this way, expenditures of scarce resources to develop
essentially the same capability in marginally different ways will be
reduced.

Data and information used to support organisational decision-making will
be standardised to a much greater extent than previously. This is
because the smaller, area capabilities which produced different data
(which was not shared among other areas) will be replaced by
organisation-wide, regional or national capabilities. The impetus for
adding to the set of these shared capabilities may well come from an
area making a convincing case for the value of the data/information
previously produced, but the resulting capability will become part of
the single system, and the data it produces will be shared across the
constabularies as a whole, regionally or nationally.

### Principle 6: Service Orientation

**Statement:** The architecture is based on a design of services which
mirror real-world business activities comprising the organisational (or
discreet areas of) business processes.

**Rationale:** Service orientation delivers organisational agility and
Boundary-less Information Flow.

**Implications:** Service representation utilises business descriptions
to provide context (i.e., business process, goal, rule, policy, service
interface, and service component) and implements services using service
orchestration.

Service orientation places unique requirements on the infrastructure,
and implementations should use open standards to realise
interoperability and location transparency.

Implementations are environment-specific; they are constrained or
enabled by context and must be described within that context.

Strong governance of service representation and implementation is
required.

A ‘‘Litmus Test’’, which determines a ‘‘good service’’, is required.

### Principle 7: Compliance with Law

**Statement:** Organisation information management processes comply with
all relevant laws, policies, and regulations.

**Rationale:** Organisation policy is to abide by laws, policies, and
regulations. This will not preclude business process improvements that
lead to changes in policies and regulations.

**Implications:** The organisation must be mindful to comply with laws,
regulations, and external policies regarding the collection, retention,
and management of data.

Education and access to the rules. Efficiency, need, and common sense
are not the only drivers. Changes in the law and changes in regulations
may drive changes in our processes or applications.

### Principle 8: ICT Responsibility

**Statement:** The ICT function is responsible for owning and
implementing ICT processes and infrastructure that enable solutions to
meet user-defined requirements for functionality, service levels, cost,
and delivery timing.

**Rationale:** Effectively align expectations with capabilities and
costs so that all projects are cost-effective. Efficient and effective
solutions have reasonable costs and clear benefits.

**Implications:** A process must be created to prioritise projects.

The ICT function must define processes to manage business unit
expectations.

Data, application, and technology models must be created to enable
integrated quality solutions and to maximise results.

### Principle 9: Protection of Intellectual Property

**Statement:** The organisation’s Intellectual Property (IP) must be
protected. This protection must be reflected in the ICT architecture,
implementation, and governance processes.

**Rationale:** A major part of an organisation’s IP is hosted in the ICT
domain.

**Implications:** While protection of IP assets is everybody’s business,
much of the actual protection is implemented in the ICT domain. Even
trust in non-ICT processes can be managed by ICT processes (email,
mandatory notes, etc.).

A security policy, governing human and ICT actors, will be required that
can substantially improve protection of IP. This must be capable of both
avoiding compromises and reducing liabilities.

### Principle 10: Regional & National Delivery in mind

**Statement:** Solutions should be designed with the aspirational
capability of delivering a national solution although in the interim an
expectation of utilisation across a region.

**Rationale:** To ensure easy adoption of force designed solutions the
ability to either extend the scale of the application or to allow
additional instances to deliver regional or a national capability should
be considered during the design phase.

**Implications:** All forces within the UK are tasked with performing
the same tasks. Traditionally each force has defined what technology is
to be used to achieve a specific capability. To meet the funding targets
and to improve inter-force information sharing forces need to
standardise on the applications used.

When designing a new solution, the design must take into account how it
could be re-used to deliver a capability to x-forces without the need to
redesign the underlying platform. This principle will result in a
reduction in disparate systems used, improve data sharing while reducing
implementation and operating costs.

### Principle 11: Requirements-Based Change

**Statement:** Only in response to business needs and demand are changes
to applications and technology made.

**Rationale:** This principle will foster an atmosphere where the
information environment changes in response to the needs of the
business, rather than having the business change in response to ICT
changes. This is to ensure that the purpose of the information support —
the transaction of business — is the basis for any proposed change.
Unintended effects on business due to ICT changes will be minimised. A
change in technology may provide an opportunity to enhance the business
process and, hence, change business needs.

**Implications:** Changes in implementation will follow full examination
of the proposed changes using the enterprise architecture.

We don’t fund a technical improvement or system development unless a
documented business need exists.

Change management processes conforming to this principle will be
developed and implemented.

This principle may bump up against the responsive change principle. We
must ensure the requirements documentation process does not hinder
responsive change to meet legitimate business needs. The purpose of this
principle is to keep us focused on business, not technology needs
responsive change is also a business need. As an enabling service, IT
should work with the business to ensure the end to end impact has been
envisaged.

### Principle 12: Responsive Change Management

**Statement:** Changes to the organisational information environment are
implemented in a timely manner.

**Rationale:** If people are to be expected to work within the
organisational information environment, that information environment
must be responsive to their needs.

**Implications:** IT have to develop processes for managing and
implementing change that do not create delays.

An organisation who feels a need for change will need to connect with
appropriate governance channels to facilitate explanation and
implementation of that need.

If IT are going to make changes, they must keep the architectures
updated.

Dependent on volume, this principle could have a reasonable resource
demand.

This will conflict with other principles (e.g., maximum
organisation-wide benefit, organisation-wide applications, etc.).

Technology Principles
---------------------

### Principle 13: Cloud First

**Statement:** The suitability of hosting applications & services in the
cloud should be given for all requirements in accordance with national
guidance.

**Rationale:** To deliver solutions that can be scaled to provide a
capability to x-forces cloud services should be considered as the
hosting platform.

Services such as Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Services
(PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) should be considered above
local or collaborative implementations where applicable to ensure
services can develop and evolve.

**Implications:** Cloud hosted Software as a Services, in their very
design, can be simply scaled as demand requires.

If PaaS or IaaS are selected, then the services hosted must be designed
to fully utilise the capabilities of this platform, including scaling
and authentication.

A standardised cloud platform must be defined to ensure all solutions
sit within the same environment and the linking of data must be defined
where applicable.

### Principle 14: Control Technical Diversity

**Statement:** Technological diversity is controlled to minimise the
non-trivial cost of maintaining expertise in and connectivity between
multiple processing environments. When looking at the introduction of
new technology – it should where possible be considered as a replacement
for an existing environment rather than additive if possible

**Rationale:** There is a real, non-trivial cost of infrastructure
required to support alternative technologies for processing
environments. There are further infrastructure costs incurred to keep
multiple processor constructs interconnected and maintained.

Limiting the number of supported components will simplify
maintainability and reduce costs.

The business advantages of minimum technical diversity include: standard
packaging of components; predictable implementation impact; predictable
valuations and returns; redefined testing; utility status; and increased
flexibility to accommodate technological advancements. Common technology
across the organisation brings the benefits of economies of scale.
Technical administration and support costs are better controlled when
limited resources can focus on this shared set of technologies.

**Implications:** Policies, standards, and procedures that govern
acquisition of technology must be tied directly to this principle.

Technology choices will be constrained by the choices available within
the technology standards. Procedures for augmenting the acceptable
technology set to meet evolving requirements will have to be developed
and put in place.

We should not be freezing technology baseline. Embrace technology
advances and change the technology standards when compatibility with the
current infrastructure, improvement in operational efficiency, or a
required capability has been demonstrated.

The 80/20 rule needs to be applied. If an existing capability delivers
80% of the required functionality this must be the chosen platform
unless this poses a significant organisational risk, or is unable to
meet a national requirement.

### Principle 15: Interoperability

**Statement:** Software and hardware should conform to defined standards
that promote interoperability for data, applications, and technology.

**Rationale:** Standards help ensure consistency, thus improving the
ability to manage systems and improve user satisfaction, and protect
existing ICT investments, thus maximising return on investment and
reducing costs. Standards for interoperability additionally help ensure
support from multiple vendors for their products, and facilitate supply
chain integration.

**Implications:** Interoperability standards and industry standards will
be followed unless there is a compelling business reason to implement a
non-standard solution.

A process for setting standards, reviewing and revising them
periodically, and granting exceptions must be established.

The existing ICT platforms must be identified and documented.

Data Principals
---------------

### Principle 16: Data is an Asset

**Statement:** Data is an asset that has value to the organisation and
is managed accordingly.

**Rationale:** Policing is an information-led activity, and information
assurance is fundamental to how the police service manages many of the
challenges faced in policing today. It is vital for maintaining public
confidence and for the efficient, effective, safe and secure conduct of
operations and services. Without robust information assurance governance
and processes, there is a significant risk of compromise, potentially
leading to the facilitation of crime, public safety issues, hindrance to
investigations, financial loss, damage to organisational reputation and,
consequently, a reduction in confidence from the public and partners.

**Implications:** This is one of three closely-related principles
regarding data: data is an asset; data is shared; and data is easily
accessible. The implication is that there is an education task to ensure
that all areas within the organisation understand the relationship
between value of data, sharing of data, and accessibility to data.

Information Asset Owners (IAO) must have the authority and means to
manage the data for which they are accountable in line with MOPI.

Nationally we must make the cultural transition from ‘‘data ownership’’
thinking to ‘‘data stewardship’’ thinking especially as we look to
transition more services and storage to flexible architectures such as
“the cloud”.

The role of the IAO is critical because obsolete, incorrect, or
inconsistent data could be passed to personnel and adversely affect
decisions across the organisation.

Part of the role of IAO, who manages the data, is to ensure data
quality. Procedures must be developed and used to prevent and correct
errors in the information and to improve those processes that produce
flawed information. Data quality will need to be measured and steps
taken to improve data quality — it is probable that policy and
procedures will need to be developed for this as well.

A forum with comprehensive organisation-wide representation should
decide on process changes suggested by the steward.

Since data is an asset of value to the entire organisation, data
stewards accountable for properly managing the data must be assigned at
the organisation level.

### Principle 17: Data is Shared

**Statement:** Users have access to the data necessary to perform their
duties; therefore, data is shared, where appropriate, across the country
and were applicable with partner agencies.

**Rationale:** Timely access to accurate data is essential to improving
the quality and efficiency of decision-making. It is less costly to
maintain timely, accurate data in a single application, and then share
it, than it is to maintain duplicative data in multiple applications.
The organisations hold a wealth of data, but it is stored in hundreds of
incompatible stovepipe databases. The speed of data collection,
creation, transfer, and assimilation is driven by the ability and
appetite of the organisations to efficiently share these islands of
data.

Shared data will result in improved intelligence, decisions etc. since
we will rely on fewer (ultimately one virtual) sources of more accurate
and timely managed data for all of our decision-making. Electronically
shared data will result in increased efficiency when existing data
entities can be used, without re-keying, to create new entities.

**Implications:** This is one of three closely-related principles
regarding data: data is an asset; data is shared; and data is easily
accessible. The implication is that there is an education task to ensure
that all areas within the organisation understand the relationship
between value of data, sharing of data, and accessibility to data.

To enable data sharing we must develop and abide by a common set of
policies, procedures, and standards governing data management and access
for both the short and the long term.

For the short term, to preserve our significant investment in legacy
systems, we must invest in software capable of migrating legacy system
data into a shared data environment.

We will also need to develop standard data models, data elements, and
other metadata that defines this shared environment and develop a
repository system for storing this metadata to make it accessible.

For the long term, as legacy systems are replaced, we must adopt and
enforce common data access policies and guidelines for new application
developers to ensure that data in new applications remains available to
the shared environment and that data in the shared environment can
continue to be used by the new applications.

For both the short term and the long term we must adopt common methods
and tools for creating, maintaining, and accessing the data shared
across the organisation.

Data sharing will require a significant cultural change.

This principle of data sharing will continually ‘‘bump up against’’ the
principle of data security. Under no circumstances will the data sharing
principle cause confidential data to be compromised, however we must
ensure that the need to know continues to apply, we must ensure are data
assets continue protect those under threat, harm etc and assist in the
investigation of crime.

Data made available for sharing will have to be relied upon by all users
to execute their respective tasks. This will ensure that only the most
accurate and timely data is relied upon for decision-making. Shared data
will become the organisation-wide ‘‘virtual single source’’ of data.

### Principle 18: Data is Accessible

**Statement:** Data is accessible for users to perform their functions.

**Rationale:** Wide access to data leads to efficiency and effectiveness
in decision-making, and affords timely response to information requests
and service delivery. Using information must be considered from an
organisation perspective to allow access by a wide variety of users.
Staff/officer time is saved and consistency of data is improved.

**Implications:** This is one of three closely-related principles
regarding data: data is an asset; data is shared; and data is easily
accessible. The implication is that there is an education task to ensure
that all areas within the organisation understand the relationship
between value of data, sharing of data, and accessibility to data.

Accessibility involves the ease with which users obtain information.

The way information is accessed and displayed must be sufficiently
adaptable to meet a wide range of organisation users and their
corresponding methods of access.

Access to data does not constitute understanding of the data. Personnel
should take caution not to misinterpret information.

Access to data does not necessarily grant the user access rights to
modify or disclose the data. This will require a large cultural shift
with an education process and a change in the national risk appetite,
which currently supports a belief in ‘‘ownership’’ of data by functional
units inside the organisations.

### Principle 19: Information Asset Owner

**Statement:** Each data element has a Information Asset Owner
accountable for data quality.

**Rationale:** One of the benefits of an architected environment is the
ability to share data (e.g., text, video, sound, etc.) across the
organisation. As the degree of data sharing grows and business units
rely upon common information, it becomes essential that only the
Information Asset Owner makes decisions about the content of data. Since
data can lose its integrity when it is entered multiple times, the
Information Asset Owner will have sole responsibility for data entry
which eliminates redundant human effort and data storage resources.

**Implications:** Real trusteeship dissolves the data ‘‘ownership’’
issues and allows the data to be available to meet all users’ needs.
This implies that a cultural change from data ‘‘ownership’’ to data
‘‘trusteeship’’ may be required.

The Information Asset Owner will be responsible for meeting quality
requirements levied upon the data for which the trustee is accountable.

It is essential that the Information Asset Owner has the ability to
provide user confidence in the data based upon attributes such as ‘‘data
source’’.

It is essential to identify the true source of the data in order that
the data authority can be assigned this trustee responsibility. This
does not mean that classified sources will be revealed nor does it mean
the source will be the trustee.

Information should be captured electronically once and immediately
validated as close to the source as possible. Quality control measures
must be implemented to ensure the integrity of the data.

As a result of sharing data across the organisation, the trustee is
accountable and responsible for the accuracy and currency of their
designated data element(s) and, subsequently, must then recognise the
importance of this trusteeship responsibility.

### Principle 20: Common Vocabulary and Data Definitions

**Statement:** Data is defined consistently throughout the organisation,
and the definitions are understandable and available to all users. If
national standards exist these must be applied to ensure local
alignment.

**Rationale:** The data that will be used in the development of
applications must have a common definition throughout, to enable sharing
of data. A common vocabulary will facilitate communications and enable
dialog to be effective. In addition, it is required to interface systems
and exchange data.

**Implications:** We are lulled into thinking that this issue is
adequately addressed because there are people with ‘‘data
administration’’ job titles and forums with charters implying
responsibility. Significant additional energy and resources must be
committed to this task. It is key to the success of efforts to improve
the information environment. This is separate from but related to the
issue of data element definition, which is addressed by a broad
community — this is more like a common vocabulary and definition.

The ICT department must establish the initial common vocabulary for the
business. The definitions will be used uniformly throughout the
organisation.

Whenever a new data definition is required, the definition effort will
be co-ordinated and reconciled with the organisation ‘‘glossary’’ of
data descriptions. A data administrator will provide this coordination.

Ambiguities resulting from multiple parochial definitions of data must
give way to accepted organisation-wide definitions and understanding.

Multiple data standardisation initiatives need to be co-ordinated.

Functional data administration responsibilities must be assigned.

### Principle 21: Data Security

**Statement:** Data is protected from unauthorised use and disclosure.
In addition to the traditional aspects of national security
classification, this includes, but is not limited to, protection of
pre-decisional, restricted and confidential information.

**Rationale:** Open sharing of information and the release of
information via relevant legislation must be balanced against the need
to restrict the availability of classified, proprietary, and sensitive
information.

Existing laws and regulations require the safeguarding of national
security and the privacy of data, while permitting free and open access.
Pre-decisional (work-in-progress, not yet authorised for release)
information must be protected to avoid unwarranted speculation,
misinterpretation, and inappropriate use.

**Implications:** Aggregation of data, both classified and not, will
create a large target requiring review and de-classification procedures
to maintain appropriate control. Data owners and/or functional users and
Information Management and if relevant, the National Accreditor, must
determine whether the aggregation results in an increased classification
level. We will need appropriate policy and procedures to handle this
review and declassification. Access to information based on a
need-to-know policy will force regular reviews of the body of
information.

The current practice of having separate systems to contain different
classifications needs to be rethought. Is there a software solution to
separating classified and unclassified data? The current hardware
solution is unwieldy, inefficient, and costly. It is more expensive to
manage unclassified data on a classified system. Currently, the only way
to combine the two is to place the unclassified data on the classified
system, where it must remain.

In order to adequately provide access to open information while
maintaining secure information, security needs must be identified and
developed at the data level, not the application level. This will
require challenging the current information marking policy & controls
required centrally.

Data security safeguards can be put in place to restrict access to
‘‘view only’’, or ‘‘never see’’. Sensitivity labelling for access to
pre-decisional, restricted and confidential information must be
determined.

Security must be designed into data elements from the beginning; it
cannot be added later. Systems, data, and technologies must be protected
from unauthorised access and manipulation. Organisational information
must be safeguarded against inadvertent or unauthorised alteration,
sabotage, disaster, or disclosure.

Data needs to be managed in line with the Management of Police
Information (MOPI) standards.

### Principle 22: Management of Police Information (MoPI) 

**Statement:** Data must be managed in accordance with MoPI guidelines.

**Rationale:** The principle of management of police information (MoPI)
provide a way of balancing proportionality and necessity that are at the
heart of effective police information management. They also highlight
the issues that need to be considered in order to comply with the law
and manage risk associated with police information.

**Implications:** If the requirements of MoPI are not considered at the
design phase of any new solution, the application of the MoPI rules will
be complex to retrofit.

Any data design must take into Consideration how data is to be
classified ensuring RRD rules can be effectively applied.

### Principle 23: Master Data Management

**Statement:** There should only be a single master working copy of data
held.

**Rationale:** Application designs will deliver a single instance of
data. This will improve information governance and deliver opportunities
for the linking of data from multiple applications while maintaining
data integrity.

In addition, the cost of hosting and managing multiple copies will be
removed.

**Implications:** Multiple copies of data is complex to manage and
costly to store. Solutions should be designed in such a way as to remove
the need for multiple copies of data to achieve a variety of functions.

The underlying data store must be designed in such a way that it can be
extended to deliver future requirements.

Application Principles
----------------------

### Principle 24: Technology Independence

**Statement:** Applications are independent of specific technology
choices and therefore can operate on a variety of technology platforms.

**Rationale:** Independence of applications from the underlying
technology allows applications to be developed, upgraded, and operated
in the most cost-effective and timely way. Otherwise technology, which
is subject to continual obsolescence and vendor dependence, becomes the
driver rather than the user requirements themselves.

Realising that every decision made with respect to ICT makes us
dependent on that technology, the intent of this principle is to ensure
that Application Software is not dependent on specific hardware and
operating systems software.

**Implications**: This principle will require standards which support
portability.

For Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) and Government Off-The-Shelf (GOTS)
applications, there may be limited current choices, as many of these
applications are technology and platform-dependent.

Subsystem interfaces will need to be developed to enable legacy
applications to interoperate with applications and operating
environments developed under the enterprise architecture.

Middleware should be used to decouple applications from specific
software solutions.

As an example, this principle could lead to use of Java, and future Java
like protocols, which give a high degree of priority to platform
independence.

### Principle 25: Ease-of-Use

**Statement:** Applications are easy to use. The underlying technology
is transparent to users, so they can concentrate on tasks at hand.

**Rationale:** The more a user has to understand the underlying
technology, the less productive that user is. Ease-of-use is a positive
incentive for use of applications. It encourages users to work within
the integrated information environment instead of developing isolated
systems to accomplish the task outside of the organisation’s integrated
information environment. Most of the knowledge required to operate one
system will be similar to others. Training is kept to a minimum, and the
risk of using a system improperly is low.

Using an application should be as intuitive as driving a different car.

**Implications:** Applications will be required to have a common
‘‘look-and-feel’’ and support ergonomic requirements. Hence, the common
look-and-feel standard must be designed and usability test criteria must
be developed.

Guidelines for user interfaces should not be constrained by narrow
assumptions about user location, language, systems training, or physical
capability. Factors such as linguistics, customer physical infirmities
(visual acuity, ability to use keyboard/mouse), and proficiency in the
use of technology have broad ramifications in determining the
ease-of-use of an application.

### Principle 26: Single Authentication Model

**Statement:** All user authentication will be delivered from a single
central user directory. This model will be applied locally\\regionally
and federated centrally.

**Rationale:** To simplify the user experience, while improving
security, all applications will be required to authenticate access using
a central access directory, and not require any credentials to be
provided by the user.

For cloud or hosted solutions, the authentication platform should be
federated to the local force directory allowing administration to occur
locally using the existing tools and processes.

NOTE: If a national IAM solution is delivered all cloud and hosted
applications must utilise this platform to perform user authentication.

It is also advised that this directory should be linked to the force HR
system to ensure staff information is up to date.

**Implications:** Simplifying the logon process improves productivity,
while improving security. Users who have multiple logon credentials are
more likely to write them down introducing security risks. In addition,
many applications that hold local user information do not enforce
password policies which result in passwords remaining unchanged for long
periods.

By standardising on a single authentication platform, application access
can be delivered and managed centrally. This will allow ICT staff to
manage the granting and revocation of access rights using existing and
familiar tools.

In addition to improved security and a simple user process, this will
also allow data to be shared between applications while maintaining
users are only able to access the information they have been granted the
specific rights to in the source application.
